README.md, before:

﻿# Modified slightly from [https://www.danbp.org/p/en/node/142](https://www.danbp.org/p/en/node/142).
This is setup for a printer with the upgraded silent Ender-3 motherboard (utilizes the TMC2208 drivers) and BLTouch auto leveling.


## IMPORTANT!
**THIS IS NOT THE FULL/ORIGINAL MARLIN FIRMWARE** :
* Configuration samples folder was deleted
* All changes in the default configuration files were marked with the label: "Customized DBP"

Please visit www.danbp.org for more information
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>


# Marlin 3D Printer Firmware

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=bugfix-2.0.x)](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/actions)

<img align="right" width=175 src="buildroot/share/pixmaps/logo/marlin-250.png" />

Additional documentation can be found at the [Marlin Home Page](http://marlinfw.org/).
Please let us know if Marlin misbehaves in any way. Volunteers are standing by!

## Marlin 2.0

Marlin 2.0 takes this popular RepRap firmware to the next level by adding support for much faster 32-bit and ARM-based boards while improving support for 8-bit AVR boards. Read about Marlin's decision to use a "Hardware Abstraction Layer" below.

Download earlier versions of Marlin on the [Releases page](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/releases).

## Building Marlin 2.0

To build Marlin 2.0 you'll need [Arduino IDE 1.8.8 or newer](https://www.arduino.cc/en/main/software) or [PlatformIO](http://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/ide.html#platformio-ide). Detailed build and install instructions are posted at:

  - [Installing Marlin (Arduino)](http://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_arduino.html)
  - [Installing Marlin (VSCode)](http://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_platformio_vscode.html).

### Supported Platforms

  Platform|MCU|Example Boards
  --------|---|-------
  [Arduino AVR](https://www.arduino.cc/)|ATmega|RAMPS, Melzi, RAMBo
  [Teensy++ 2.0](http://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286)|AT90USB1286|Printrboard
  [Arduino Due](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/ArduinoDue)|SAM3X8E|RAMPS-FD, RADDS, RAMPS4DUE
  [LPC1768](http://www.nxp.com/products/microcontrollers-and-processors/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc1700-cortex-m3/512kb-flash-64kb-sram-ethernet-usb-lqfp100-package:LPC1768FBD100)|ARM® Cortex-M3|MKS SBASE, Re-ARM, Selena Compact
  [LPC1769](https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-microcontrollers/general-purpose-mcus/lpc1700-cortex-m3/512kb-flash-64kb-sram-ethernet-usb-lqfp100-package:LPC1769FBD100)|ARM® Cortex-M3|Smoothieboard, Azteeg X5 mini, TH3D EZBoard
  [STM32F103](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f103.html)|ARM® Cortex-M3|Malyan M200, GTM32 Pro, MKS Robin, BTT SKR Mini
  [STM32F401](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f401.html)|ARM® Cortex-M4|ARMED, Rumba32, SKR Pro, Lerdge, FYSETC S6
  [STM32F7x6](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f7x6.html)|ARM® Cortex-M7|The Borg, RemRam V1
  [SAMD51P20A](https://www.adafruit.com/product/4064)|ARM® Cortex-M4|Adafruit Grand Central M4
  [Teensy 3.5](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy35.html)|ARM® Cortex-M4|
  [Teensy 3.6](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy36.html)|ARM® Cortex-M4|

## Submitting Changes

- Submit **Bug Fixes** as Pull Requests to the ([bugfix-2.0.x](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/tree/bugfix-2.0.x)) branch.
- Submit **New Features** to the ([dev-2.1.x](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/tree/dev-2.1.x)) branch.
- Follow the [Coding Standards](http://marlinfw.org/docs/development/coding_standards.html) to gain points with the maintainers.
- Please submit your questions and concerns to the [Issue Queue](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/issues).

## Marlin Support

For best results getting help with configuration and troubleshooting, please use the following resources:

- [Marlin Documentation](http://marlinfw.org) - Official Marlin documentation
- [Marlin Discord](https://discord.gg/n5NJ59y) - Discuss issues with Marlin users and developers
- Facebook Group ["Marlin Firmware"](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1049718498464482/)
- RepRap.org [Marlin Forum](http://forums.reprap.org/list.php?415)
- [Tom's 3D Forums](https://discuss.toms3d.org/)
- Facebook Group ["Marlin Firmware for 3D Printers"](https://www.facebook.com/groups/3Dtechtalk/)
- [Marlin Configuration](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=marlin+configuration) on YouTube

## Credits

The current Marlin dev team consists of:

 - Scott Lahteine [[@thinkyhead](https://github.com/thinkyhead)] - USA &nbsp; [Donate](http://www.thinkyhead.com/donate-to-marlin) / Flattr: [![Flattr Scott](http://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=thinkyhead&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)
 - Roxanne Neufeld [[@Roxy-3D](https://github.com/Roxy-3D)] - USA
 - Chris Pepper [[@p3p](https://github.com/p3p)] - UK
 - Bob Kuhn [[@Bob-the-Kuhn](https://github.com/Bob-the-Kuhn)] - USA
 - João Brazio [[@jbrazio](https://github.com/jbrazio)] - Portugal
 - Erik van der Zalm [[@ErikZalm](https://github.com/ErikZalm)] - Netherlands &nbsp; [![Flattr Erik](http://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=ErikZalm&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)

## License

Marlin is published under the [GPL license](/LICENSE) because we believe in open development. The GPL comes with both rights and obligations. Whether you use Marlin firmware as the driver for your open or closed-source product, you must keep Marlin open, and you must provide your compatible Marlin source code to end users upon request. The most straightforward way to comply with the Marlin license is to make a fork of Marlin on Github, perform your modifications, and direct users to your modified fork.

While we can't prevent the use of this code in products (3D printers, CNC, etc.) that are closed source or crippled by a patent, we would prefer that you choose another firmware or, better yet, make your own.

Commit message:

*Made additional adjustments to some of the configuration. *Adjusted the status screen to be for the Ender-3 Pro instead. *Removed the custom bootscreen since it just adds additional storage needs.

README.md, after:

﻿# Modified slightly from [https://www.danbp.org/p/en/node/142](https://www.danbp.org/p/en/node/142).
This is setup for a printer with the upgraded silent Ender-3 motherboard (utilizes the TMC2208 drivers) and BLTouch auto leveling. 

I've had great success in my prints since setting this up. My Z-offset came out to -0.3 after installation ([CR-10 mount](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2493610) + BLTouch with springs between BLTouch and mount).

My Start GCode (Credit to [u/lushprojects on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/ender3/comments/aiebc7/better_cura_start_gcode_for_bltouch/eeohehd/)):

```
; Ender 3 Custom Start G-code
M140 S{material_bed_temperature_layer_0} ; Set Heat Bed temperature
M190 S{material_bed_temperature_layer_0} ; Wait for Heat Bed temperature
M104 S160; start warming extruder to 160
G28 ; Home all axes
G29 ; Auto bed-level (BL-Touch)
G92 E0 ; Reset Extruder
M104 S{material_print_temperature_layer_0} ; Set Extruder temperature
G1 X0.1 Y20 Z0.3 F5000.0 ; Move to start position
M109 S{material_print_temperature_layer_0} ; Wait for Extruder temperature
; G1 Z2.0 F3000 ; Move Z Axis up little to prevent scratching of Heat Bed
G1 X0.1 Y200.0 Z0.3 F1500.0 E15 ; Draw the first line
G1 X0.4 Y200.0 Z0.3 F5000.0 ; Move to side a little
G1 X0.4 Y20 Z0.3 F1500.0 E30 ; Draw the second line
G92 E0 ; Reset Extruder
G1 Z2.0 F3000 ; Move Z Axis up little to prevent scratching of Heat Bed
; End of custom start GCode
```


## IMPORTANT!
**THIS IS NOT THE FULL/ORIGINAL MARLIN FIRMWARE** :
* Configuration samples folder was deleted
* All changes in the default configuration files were marked with the label: "Customized DBP"

Please visit www.danbp.org for more information
<BR>
<BR>
<BR>


# Marlin 3D Printer Firmware

![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
![GitHub Release Date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/marlinfirmware/marlin.svg)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=bugfix-2.0.x)](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/actions)

<img align="right" width=175 src="buildroot/share/pixmaps/logo/marlin-250.png" />

Additional documentation can be found at the [Marlin Home Page](http://marlinfw.org/).
Please let us know if Marlin misbehaves in any way. Volunteers are standing by!

## Marlin 2.0

Marlin 2.0 takes this popular RepRap firmware to the next level by adding support for much faster 32-bit and ARM-based boards while improving support for 8-bit AVR boards. Read about Marlin's decision to use a "Hardware Abstraction Layer" below.

Download earlier versions of Marlin on the [Releases page](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/releases).

## Building Marlin 2.0

To build Marlin 2.0 you'll need [Arduino IDE 1.8.8 or newer](https://www.arduino.cc/en/main/software) or [PlatformIO](http://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/ide.html#platformio-ide). Detailed build and install instructions are posted at:

  - [Installing Marlin (Arduino)](http://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_arduino.html)
  - [Installing Marlin (VSCode)](http://marlinfw.org/docs/basics/install_platformio_vscode.html).

### Supported Platforms

  Platform|MCU|Example Boards
  --------|---|-------
  [Arduino AVR](https://www.arduino.cc/)|ATmega|RAMPS, Melzi, RAMBo
  [Teensy++ 2.0](http://www.microchip.com/wwwproducts/en/AT90USB1286)|AT90USB1286|Printrboard
  [Arduino Due](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/ArduinoDue)|SAM3X8E|RAMPS-FD, RADDS, RAMPS4DUE
  [LPC1768](http://www.nxp.com/products/microcontrollers-and-processors/arm-based-processors-and-mcus/lpc-cortex-m-mcus/lpc1700-cortex-m3/512kb-flash-64kb-sram-ethernet-usb-lqfp100-package:LPC1768FBD100)|ARM® Cortex-M3|MKS SBASE, Re-ARM, Selena Compact
  [LPC1769](https://www.nxp.com/products/processors-and-microcontrollers/arm-microcontrollers/general-purpose-mcus/lpc1700-cortex-m3/512kb-flash-64kb-sram-ethernet-usb-lqfp100-package:LPC1769FBD100)|ARM® Cortex-M3|Smoothieboard, Azteeg X5 mini, TH3D EZBoard
  [STM32F103](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f103.html)|ARM® Cortex-M3|Malyan M200, GTM32 Pro, MKS Robin, BTT SKR Mini
  [STM32F401](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f401.html)|ARM® Cortex-M4|ARMED, Rumba32, SKR Pro, Lerdge, FYSETC S6
  [STM32F7x6](https://www.st.com/en/microcontrollers-microprocessors/stm32f7x6.html)|ARM® Cortex-M7|The Borg, RemRam V1
  [SAMD51P20A](https://www.adafruit.com/product/4064)|ARM® Cortex-M4|Adafruit Grand Central M4
  [Teensy 3.5](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy35.html)|ARM® Cortex-M4|
  [Teensy 3.6](https://www.pjrc.com/store/teensy36.html)|ARM® Cortex-M4|

## Submitting Changes

- Submit **Bug Fixes** as Pull Requests to the ([bugfix-2.0.x](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/tree/bugfix-2.0.x)) branch.
- Submit **New Features** to the ([dev-2.1.x](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/tree/dev-2.1.x)) branch.
- Follow the [Coding Standards](http://marlinfw.org/docs/development/coding_standards.html) to gain points with the maintainers.
- Please submit your questions and concerns to the [Issue Queue](https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin/issues).

## Marlin Support

For best results getting help with configuration and troubleshooting, please use the following resources:

- [Marlin Documentation](http://marlinfw.org) - Official Marlin documentation
- [Marlin Discord](https://discord.gg/n5NJ59y) - Discuss issues with Marlin users and developers
- Facebook Group ["Marlin Firmware"](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1049718498464482/)
- RepRap.org [Marlin Forum](http://forums.reprap.org/list.php?415)
- [Tom's 3D Forums](https://discuss.toms3d.org/)
- Facebook Group ["Marlin Firmware for 3D Printers"](https://www.facebook.com/groups/3Dtechtalk/)
- [Marlin Configuration](https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=marlin+configuration) on YouTube

## Credits

The current Marlin dev team consists of:

 - Scott Lahteine [[@thinkyhead](https://github.com/thinkyhead)] - USA &nbsp; [Donate](http://www.thinkyhead.com/donate-to-marlin) / Flattr: [![Flattr Scott](http://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=thinkyhead&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)
 - Roxanne Neufeld [[@Roxy-3D](https://github.com/Roxy-3D)] - USA
 - Chris Pepper [[@p3p](https://github.com/p3p)] - UK
 - Bob Kuhn [[@Bob-the-Kuhn](https://github.com/Bob-the-Kuhn)] - USA
 - João Brazio [[@jbrazio](https://github.com/jbrazio)] - Portugal
 - Erik van der Zalm [[@ErikZalm](https://github.com/ErikZalm)] - Netherlands &nbsp; [![Flattr Erik](http://api.flattr.com/button/flattr-badge-large.png)](https://flattr.com/submit/auto?user_id=ErikZalm&url=https://github.com/MarlinFirmware/Marlin&title=Marlin&language=&tags=github&category=software)

## License

Marlin is published under the [GPL license](/LICENSE) because we believe in open development. The GPL comes with both rights and obligations. Whether you use Marlin firmware as the driver for your open or closed-source product, you must keep Marlin open, and you must provide your compatible Marlin source code to end users upon request. The most straightforward way to comply with the Marlin license is to make a fork of Marlin on Github, perform your modifications, and direct users to your modified fork.

While we can't prevent the use of this code in products (3D printers, CNC, etc.) that are closed source or crippled by a patent, we would prefer that you choose another firmware or, better yet, make your own.
